.TH TIGO 1 "2026-06-15" "tigo" "Tigo Manual"
.SH NAME
tigo \- terminal-based TODO/task management program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tigo
[OPTIONS] [\fIroot\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tigo is a terminal-based TODO/task management program written in Go.
Tasks are stored as \fBTASK.md\fR files inside timestamped directories,
making them grep-able, diff-able, and git-friendly.
.PP
If a \fIroot\fR directory is provided, Tigo uses it as the task database.
Otherwise it looks for a \fB.tigo\fR directory in the current working
directory. If that does not exist, it falls back to
\fB~/.local/share/tigo\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show the version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-default-config
Print the default configuration to stdout and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-user-config-path
Print the path to the user configuration file and exit.
.TP
.B \-c <command> [args...]
Run a CLI command instead of the TUI. See CLI COMMANDS below.
.SH CLI COMMANDS
The following commands are available with the \fB\-c\fR flag:
.TP
.B help [command]
Show available commands or detailed help for a specific command.
.TP
.B create <title>
Create a new task. Supports \fB\-\-priority\fR, \fB\-\-tags\fR, \fB\-\-due\fR, \fB\-\-description\fR.
.TP
.B list
List tasks. Supports \fB\-\-status\fR, \fB\-\-tag\fR, \fB\-\-priority-min\fR, \fB\-\-priority-max\fR, \fB\-\-sort\fR, \fB\-\-limit\fR.
.TP
.B show <id>
Show the full details of a task.
.TP
.B edit <id>
Edit a task. Supports \fB\-\-title\fR, \fB\-\-priority\fR, \fB\-\-tags\fR, \fB\-\-due\fR, \fB\-\-description\fR, \fB\-\-status\fR.
.TP
.B delete <id>
Permanently delete a task.
.TP
.B open <id>
Set the task's status to OPEN.
.TP
.B close <id>
Set the task's status to CLOSED.
.TP
.B tags
Show task counts per tag. Supports \fB\-\-status\fR, \fB\-\-sort\fR.
.TP
.B top <n>
Show the top n tasks by priority. Supports \fB\-\-status\fR.
.TP
.B next
Show the next task due. Supports \fB\-\-status\fR.
.TP
.B overdue
Show overdue tasks. Supports \fB\-\-status\fR.
.TP
.B search <query>
Search tasks by title, description, or tags. Supports \fB\-\-status\fR, \fB\-\-limit\fR.
.TP
.B stats
Show task statistics (total, open, closed, overdue).
.SH KEYBINDINGS
The following keybindings are available in the TUI:
.TP
.B \fBq\fR, \fBCtrl+C\fR
Quit Tigo.
.TP
.B \fB?\fR
Show the help dialog.
.TP
.B \fBn\fR, \fBa\fR
Create a new task.
.TP
.B \fBe\fR
Edit the selected task.
.TP
.B \fBd\fR
Delete the selected task.
.TP
.B \fBH\fR
Hide/show CLOSED tasks.
.TP
.B \fBj\fR, \fB\edarr\fR
Cursor down in the task list.
.TP
.B \fBk\fR, \fB\uarr\fR
Cursor up in the task list.
.TP
.B \fBh\fR, \fB\larr\fR
Move to the previous selectable item / focus tasks list.
.TP
.B \fBl\fR, \fB\rarr\fR
Move to the next selectable item / focus details view.
.TP
.B \fBg\fR, \fBG\fR
Jump to the top/bottom.
.TP
.B \fB[\fR, \fB]\fR
Go back/forward in task navigation history (jump list).
.TP
.B \fBL\fR
Focus the logs view.
.TP
.B \fBb\fR
Show blame summary for the selected task or line.
.TP
.B \fBc\fR
Open the commit dialog.
.TP
.B \fBf\fR
Fetch from remote.
.TP
.B \fBp\fR
Pull commits from remote.
.TP
.B \fBP\fR
Push commits to remote.
.TP
.B \fBB\fR
Switch git branch.
.TP
.B \fB/\fR
Search tasks by title, description, or tags (supports RegEx).
.TP
.B \fBs\fR
Sort tasks by priority, due date, ID, or title.
.TP
.B \fBy\fR
Copy the selected task line to the clipboard.
.TP
.B \fBY\fR
Copy the whole current line to the clipboard.
.TP
.B \fBo\fR
Open the task's containing directory in the file explorer.
.TP
.B \fBO\fR
Open the selected task's \fBTASK.md\fR in the default editor.
.TP
.B \fBr\fR
Refresh the task list from disk.
.TP
.B \fBAlt+C\fR
Open the local Tigo config in the default editor.
.TP
.B \fBAlt+R\fR
Reload the Tigo configuration from disk.
.TP
.B \fB`\fR
Show the current Tigo directory.
.TP
.B \fBSpace\fR
Toggle task status (OPEN/CLOSED) / Follow hyperlink.
.TP
.B \fBTab\fR
Switch between views (task list, details, logs).
.TP
.B \fBEnter\fR
Submit dialogs / Go to the selected task's details.
.TP
.B \fBEsc\fR
Cancel dialogs / Clear search / Exit task details view.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Tigo loads configuration from YAML files with the following precedence
(highest wins):
.PP
1. \fB.tigo/config.yaml\fR (local, per-directory override)
.br
2. \fB~/.config/tigo/config.yaml\fR (user config, XDG compliant)
.br
3. Built-in defaults
.PP
Configuration options:
.TP
.B sort_by
Sort tasks by \fIid\fR, \fIpriority\fR, \fIdue-date\fR, or \fItitle\fR (default: id).
.TP
.B default_priority
Default priority for new tasks (default: 50).
.TP
.B frame_style
Frame border style: \fIround\fR, \fIdouble\fR, or \fIsingle\fR (default: round).
.TP
.B show_closed
Show closed tasks in the list (default: false).
.TP
.B due_color_enabled
Color due dates by proximity (default: true).
.SH TASK STORAGE
Each task is stored in a directory named \fBYYYYMMDD-HHmmss\fR containing a
\fBTASK.md\fR file. The file format:
.PP
.EX
# Title of the task

- STATUS: OPEN
- PRIORITY: 70
- TAGS: bug, UI
- DUE: 2026-05-11

Description of the task goes here.
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB~/.local/share/tigo/\fR
Default task database directory.
.TP
\fB~/.config/tigo/config.yaml\fR
User configuration file.
.TP
\fB.tigo/config.yaml\fR
Local per-directory configuration override.
.SH AUTHORS
Mehrad Pooryoussof (CodeWriter21).
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR "Tigo on GitHub" " <https://github.com/MPCodeWriter21/Tigo>"
